(Thea)
https://sociation.ncsociologyassoc.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/avatarwhiteness_proof_final.pdf
Author: David R. Dietrich
Cultural Data: Number of skin tones in video games (numeric)
	For cultural data, I wanted to look into the numeric value of skin tones present in video games throughout multiple years. I chose Reexamining Avatars of Whiteness: Changes in Racial Presentation of Video Game Player Characters as my scholarly article. This article examines whether or not racial diversity in video games has increased over the years, and how outside cultural events, such as the Black Lives Matter movement, have affected these numbers. To find the data for the article, the writer gathered the number of skin color options from multiple MMPORGSs. The data was gathered from MMPORG.com and Gamespot. Of the 85 games that were chosen for the study, you could not customize  your skin color in 16 of them. This data was then compared to 2009, in which 40% of games wouldn’t have let you change your skin color, showing an improvement. There were also more options for african hair styles seen in the games sampled in the most recent study rather than the one done in 2009. The conclusion the author of the study came to was that the number of skin colors available in games has increased since 2009, there is still a noticeable lack of options for black characters in video games, especially as seen in facial features and hair styles. The number of options for non-white characters in video games reflects the cultural ideals at the time they were created and the dominance of whiteness in culture.
	The most interesting part of this scholarly article, to me, was the discussion of cultural context and how that could cause a shift in the number of skin tones available in video games. We can use the same practice that the researcher did for our own data. We can use online databases of dress up games that already exist and compare the number of skin tones by year, allowing us to see trends over time. This will also make it easier for us to examine how dress up games were impacted by the social culture at the time. 
